---
layout: article
title: Focus
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt: A discussion of focus, and how it is different from exclusion.
tags: [talk, language, linguistics, syntax, UG, blacklivesmatter, focus]
image:
  feature: Focus2.jpg
  teaser: Focus.jpg
  thumb: Focus.jpg
date: 2016-07-18T18:36:25-07:00
---


Focus.

Focus is the topic of discussion, the new information, whatever thing it is that we happen to be talking about right now. For the purposes of many of these sentences, the focus is Focus.

This is something that a lot of people seem to not understand. And I can't understand why not; after all, it's baked into our brains as a part of universal grammar, something that every person has by virtue of being human and having language.
Focus is not exclusivity.

When I choose to focus on Focus, it does not mean that I do not think any other grammatical unit, like topic, subject, main verb, object, modal verb, or whatever, is unimportant or unworthy of discussion. It does not even mean that it's my favorite. I happen to think that all of those are just as interesting and important. What it means is that it is the one I'm talking about right now.

What I am doing is not excluding all other grammatical functions. I am merely focusing on one out of many in this particular discussion.
Let's look at some real-life examples of Focus in action.

‪# \#‎BlackLivesMatter‬

"Black", or if you prefer, "Black Lives", are in Focus. When I tweet #BlackLivesMatter, it does not come with an implicit "other lives don't", because Focus is not exclusivity. When you see someone use the BLM tag or emblem, it is because they are putting "Black Lives", in Focus, making them the topic of discussion.

The question you should ask yourself therefore is not, "why don't they care about other lives?" because it is not implied or otherwise indicated that that is the case. The question you should ask yourself is, "Why do they want to bring attention to Black Lives?" And there you might learn something.

How about another?

‪# \#‎Feminism‬

Now this is a single word for a movement, probably because it is older and people used to like to find a way to attach -isms to every movement, they don't seem to do that as much these days. Nonetheless, what it effectively does is put women in Focus.

What it does not do, is put women above men, or ask for discussion of women's issues to the exclusion of men's issues. What it does is bring attention to something that deserves more attention than it gets, by putting it in Focus.

I support #BlackLivesMatter, and I am a feminist, not because I think that only black people are important or that only women have problems, but because I know that everyone is equally important, but they are not treated as such in America. By calling out Black people as mattering, I point out that in our system, they don't.

When a white man kills another white man, they get labeled as insane, they are crucified in the media, everyone wonders what is wrong with their brains, and they almost always wind up in jail for the rest of their lives.

When a white man kills a black man, they get a paid vacation during an "investigation" that never comes back recommending indictment, meanwhile people raise hundreds of thousands of dollars in funds in support of the killer as the media dives into the murdered man's criminal history to find out how many parking tickets he has, in an attempt to justify his death.

This is not an acceptable state of justice. This is why we need #BlackLivesMatter, to bring attention to injustice, to put problems that are ignored into Focus.

Yes, it is true that ‪#‎AllLivesMatter‬. It's also true that ‪#‎WhiteLivesMatter‬ and ‪#‎AsianLivesMatter‬ and ‪#‎MiddleEastLivesMatter‬, but it is downright dishonest to think that those ideas are in opposition to #BlackLivesMatter. All you are doing is changing the Focus, changing the Focus to somewhere that it doesn't belong.

Ultimately, the goal is for all lives to matter. That's what everyone wants in the end. #BlackLivesMatter exists to point out that, in America today, it's black lives that don't.